The meditation status. When we are meditating, then how are we going to maintain that meditation?
When we are meditating, what? And the teaching said "Ebaidi". I use the word "Ebaidi" in Tibetan.
It's called "Nepa".
And I also said yesterday, when we are meditating, there are three things happening.
Three things happening, those are known as "Nepa" and "Yewa" and "Rupa" in Tibetan.
And the English translation will be "Ebaidi" and the movement and recognizing or beholding that
movement and that "Ebaidi".
So those are the three kinds of naturally occurring qualities.
The first, the most important, is "Ebaidi" for us. Particularly for many of us, as a beginner
practitioner,
"Ebaidi" is very important and that's why. Why is "Ebaidi" very important? Because our prison mind
is a conception.
Conservation is very turbulent, it's restless, it's carrying all kind of heart, never really
resting on the nature of the mind.
We are wandering all the time. Therefore, "Ebaidi" is very, very important.
To do "Ebaidi", I also mentioned it many times and the great master of thinking, but he mentioned
it many times.
And I'm sure you heard that from other great masters, it is important to have "Chamada" meditation,
mostly.
"Chamada", literally, "Chamada" means calm, abiding calm.
What that actually really means, stopping the thought. Stopping the thought. That is.
So, in one way means stopping the thought. Stopping the thought, how are you stopping the thought?
You are also stopping the thought, very gentle, very relaxing, very comfortably.
You are preventing to not coming the thought. And that is known as one way understanding of "Cham
ada".
So, to ask for the cause, forming the mind becomes very active, then I also suggested that even we
are meditating on the droning at the beginning time or the beginning session.
Maybe for 5-10 minutes, we do "Chamada" very well. Trying to make some stopping thought.
That means effort. If you do some duty, you are making effort, and some making stop thought,
preventing thought.
And those are then, with the object, with the object, all objects, such as the divine sage of the
Buddha, "Chakamuni", all that, all without object.
Without object, just really stopping the thought for 5 minutes or 3-4 minutes. And what that will
help? What will that do?
It will subside in the running thought, running, consulting thought, turbulent thought. It will
slow down. It will help it slow down.
Then, now you are going to be relaxing on the meditating and the "Zoki". "Zoki" in the meditation
is not stopping the thought.
That's what I said many times. You now must be hearing that again and again. But in Chitji, he said
, "Let it come. What let it come? Let thought come.
Let it be. Let that go away." That is the "Zoki". Nature of the mind is the flowing natural systems
.
We like to say, in the flowing natural systems, nature cannot prevent it. How we can prevent the
block in the wind, wind, or sunshine, weather, any of these.
I mean, if we do, that is just making up ourselves more tired. Similarly, the nature of the mind is
active.
Mind is active. Mind is flowing. Mind is very energetic. So if we prevent it trying to stop, that
is not the nature.
Nature. Therefore, "Zoki" means we are discovering exactly where the "nature" it is. "Nature" it is
.
And then, that's why I said, "Abide it. Let it come. Let it go. Let it be. This."
We don't regulate that. What that flow is, is all known as Dharmakaya displays. When we start
regulating these and that, these and that things,
I said yesterday quite a few times, and also of course many times, that recollection of thinking
these and that is dualities.
Whether it is big, whether it is small, whether it is a certain, it is dualities.
What it is about? Or grasping, it is grasping. What that grasping is? Then it is samsara.
It is the beginning of samsara. The clinging is clinging or grasping is samsara.
So, labeling these and chasing upward thought. Whether it is gross thought, small thought, or
monkey-mind thought, or mouse-mind thought,
mouse-mind thought, it is clinging. It is grasping. Gasping. That means what? When we do cling and
grasping, we are not letting it go.
That we've been doing from the biggest times. We are not letting it go. When it is not letting it
go,
what it is okay to teach is you are not liberating. You are not liberating. Where you are
liberating?
Dharmakaya. Where this thought comes from? It is Dharmakaya. What is that thought? It is the
expression of Dharmakayas.
Where it is going? It is Dharmakaya. It is all display of Dharmakayas. Dharmakaya. Those are what
is known.
Dharmakaya is display of sambhokaya, namakayas. This is what nature is.
Where we started regulating that, then we are putting another dharma or another clinging, grasping
and deluding that.
So therefore, as I said, the first is important is to stabilize the mind with the support of such
as samatams.
Once that, let it be there, and then we relax on the natural state or zoopdi state, like a body, a
body.
That is then relaxing. As I said yesterday, then carefreeze, or not trying to make something, not
holding, relax.
When you relax, relax on all the six senses. Six senses, eye, ear, nose, tongue, body and mind, all
relaxed.
Let that be in their own natural state, whatever it is, and you relax.
Relaxing and beholding the beauty of Dharmakayas, the awareness of Rupa.
Rupa is Dharmakayas. That is what we behold.
So, with this understanding,